so let's go ahead and look at the point
coordinates
so in point coordinates we're going to
write the fractional coordinates of the
atoms
relative to the unit cell so
here we've got a simple cubic unit cell
and one other thing we're going i need
to do to write the fractional
coordinates is just to go ahead and pick
a set of axes to use i'm going to
go ahead and use this back corner and
i'll typically do that through most of
the slides
try and be consistent for you i'm going
to call these the abc
directions xyz
if you want the abc is typically how we
refer to the directions
on crystal systems so we can talk about
there being an a lattice parameter
b lattice parameter and c lattice
parameter in the case of the cubic the a
b and c are all equal and that wouldn't
be the case say for the tetragonal
system that you saw previously
in that system the a and b are equal and
the c-axis
is the one that is stretched
okay so at this point once we've got
that defined we can simply go ahead and
write
the positions of these coordinates
relative to
to this unit cell and so for example
this atom up here
would be zero in the a direction one in
the b
direction and one in the c direction so
just like you would normally write
coordinates a point
so this would be 1 1 1 for example as a
coordinate
this one over here would be 0 1 0
right this one would be uh
one one zero
and then this one i'm gonna go ahead and
pause for a second
a few times i like to think um just for
just for five seconds
what kind of coordinate would you write
for that one
all right so let's go ahead and see what
you got
this should be the one zero
one okay so those are point coordinates
or fractional coordinates in our next
example here we've got
now atoms contained at other places
besides just the corners okay so we're
going to go ahead and do this
in the same way if we describe the
positions again i'm going to use this as
my a
axis my b axis
and then my c axis coming up along the
back here
that should be b um
so again these atoms that are sitting
out here on the corners
sample this one here would just be a one
one zero position and now for this face
centered cubic structure we've got adam
sitting in the
centers of faces so
this face atom here then for example
would be just one half of the way out in
the
a direction one half over into b
and we're in the a b planes is zero
in the see and so we'll see that all of
the face atoms have
similar type coordinates this one over
here
we are a half out in the x
we are all the way out in the b
direction
and then now one half up in the y
so that's how we can write our
fractional coordinates
all right so go ahead and think about
this one up here
go ahead and write down what you think
the coordinates for that will be i'll
give you just a few seconds to do that
okay so hopefully you saw that it was
one half out in the x direction
one half over in the y direction
and one in the
z direction c direction so one half one
half one
is a fractional chord and so sometimes
this is very useful
in uh helping to define where atoms are
when our structure
starts to get kind of confusing we also
see that it's very helpful we're trying
to find
distances between planes
or distances between atoms to know their
fractional coordinates
all right so here's the cesium chloride
structure
so i would go ahead and pause this video
now
and go ahead and write down the
coordinates
say for this atom this one
and this one so go ahead and pause the
video
write down the coordinates for those
three then come back
and we'll take a look
okay welcome back let's go ahead and
write down the answers for these and see
how you did
this is one half one half one half
this one here is going to be
zero one
zero
i guess i should have specified my axes
again i'm going to put them consistent
with what i've been doing
okay if you pick a different coordinate
you're going to with different
fractional coordinates i recommend that
you pick
the back corner like i am just make it
easier to
compare answers and then this one here
is going to be zero one
one okay
easy enough all right so let's go ahead
and take
a look at a little more complicated
structure
this is one that you saw before that we
called diamond cubic
so this is a diamond cubic structure
when all of the atoms
here are the same type in this case here
these extra four atoms that show up in
this structure
um are not the same type but in fact
zinc and then sulfurs show up in what
look like
face centered cubic sites and so we've
got this what's called a zinc blend
structure
so fractional coordinates help here in
helping you to see where these extra
atoms are located
so hopefully the sulfurs you can see
are on face type sites so again
something like this would be at one half
one one half
again i need to put my coordinate system
on here
or these point coordinates don't make
any sense
okay we have no reference so there we go
we got abc
alright so now what about these extra
ones these these blue atoms that are
here
each of these um zinc atoms
are located behind a corner
and they're off by a factor of
a quarter quarter quarter from a corner
okay there's a mouthful so for example
if i was to take a look at this one here
this corner atom is at one zero
zero and
this zinc atom right
it's going to be off from that let me go
ahead
and write its uh change in position so
i'm going to come
back one quarter
so let me write it this way i'm going to
write one zero
zero minus
uh let's see oops let me do plus
okay so we're going to go minus a
quarter in the x direction
and we're going to move over in the b
direction here by a quarter and we're
going to move
up by a quarter okay
so in other words the coordinate for
this one then
is three quarters one quarter
one quarter okay so they're all shifted
by a quarter quarter
quarter from their closest
corner atom so let's take a look at
one more of them so let's say this one
here
so the corner atom is sitting behind
it's at position one one one
and this one is shifted off by a quarter
quarter quarter
and so its position here in this case is
actually three quarters
three quarters three quarters
okay so that's the zinc blend um
structure
all right that's it for uh point
coordinates see you next time